---
title: 'Laws of UX”'
date: 2023-01-11
permalink: /posts/2022/01/laws-of-ux/
tags:
  - UX-Laws
  - UI/UX
  - Frontend
---

1. Jakob's Law : "Users spend most of their time on other sites, and they prefer your site to work as all the other sites they already know" – User prefer to use knowledge of previous experience while using an application which causes less “cognitive load” and this is interpreted as a better user experience, however, this is a guiding principle and does not means that all websites should be exactly similar which actually be quite boring.

2. Fitts' s Law: 

3. Hicks's Laws: "The time it takes to make a decision increases with the number and complexity of the choices available." -  If there are a lot of choices that are required to be made, user should be made to chose those in muliple rounds and each round having few choices which should be further reduced if complexity of the choice are high.

4. Miller's Law: 

5. Postel's Law: "Be conservative in what you do be Liberal in what you accept from others" - User should be delivered something that works irrespective of the screen size, network bandwidth, feature support or input mechanisms; and designers should expect input in any form and in variety of input formats. 

6. Peak--End Rule: "People judge an experience largely based on how they felt at its peak and its end, rather than on the total sum or average of every moment of the experience" - Never disappoint customers at the peak moment or at the end of an activity and impressing them at that point is only what is required.  

7. Aesthetic-Usability Effect: "Users often perceive aesthetically pleasing design as design that's more usable" - Asthetically pleasing design make user forget or ignore minor issues in the functionalities and is perceived more usable than a design or product that is less pleasing. 

8. von Restorff Effect: This principle in simple terms means that highlighted items catch more attention of a user. The highlighting can be done in many ways: (a) Distinct background color, (b) Increased font size, (c) Notification prompt on top of an icon or any other distinctive way one can come up with. One noticeable effect seen is something called “banner effect” in which user nowadays have developed a sense of ignoring ads banners. While leveraging this principle for the UI elements one should be careful that their UI elements should not feel like ad banners else they will be ignored instead of being distinctively noticed.

9. Tesler's Law: "for any system there is a certain amount of complexity that cannot be reduced" - 

10. Dohtery Threshold: "Productivity soars when a computer and its users interact at a pace (<400 ms) that ensures that neither has to wait on the other" - 


